in this video we'll talk about an
approach to building a recommender
system that's called collaborative
filtering the algorithm that we're going
to talk about has a very interesting
property that it does what is called
peek alerting and by that I mean that
this would be an algorithm they can
start to learn for itself what features
to use here was the data set that we had
and we had assumed that for each movie
someone had come and told us how
romantic that movie was and how much
action there was in that movie but as
you can imagine it can be very difficult
and time-consuming and expensive to
actually try to get someone to get a
watch each movie and tell you how
romantic rejection paths in each movie
and often you want even more features
than than just these tools and so where
do you get these features from so let's
change the problem a bit and suppose
that we have a data set where we do not
know the values of these features so
we're given a data set of movies and of
how the users rated them but we have no
idea how romantic each movie is and we
have no idea how action-packed each
movie is so it replace all of these
things with question ones but now let's
make a slightly different assumption
let's think that we've gone to each of
our users and each of our users has told
us how much they like romantic movies
and how much they like action-packed
movies so Alice has associated a
parameter vector theta one Bob theta two
Carol three to three days later four and
let's say that we also use this you know
let's say Alice tells us that um she
really likes romantic movies and so
there's a five there which is the
multiplier associated with x1 and let's
say Alice tells us she really doesn't
like actually movies so this is zero
there and Bob tells us something similar
so we have theta two over here
whereas Carol tells us that she really
likes action movies which is why there's
a five there that's the multiplier
associated with x2
remember there's also a
zero equals one and let's say that Carol
you know tells us she doesn't like
romantic movies and so on similarly for
Dave so so let's assume that somehow we
can go to our users and each user J just
tells us what is the value of theta J
for them and so basically specifies to
us how much they like different types of
movies if we can get these parameters
theta for my users then it turns out
that it becomes possible to try to infer
what are the values of x1 and x2 for
each movie let's look at an example
let's look at the movie let's look at
movie one so that movie one has
associated with it a feature vector x1
and you know this movie is called love
at last but let's ignore that so let's
pretend we don't know what this movie is
from right so let's ignore the title of
this movie all we know is that Alice
loved this movie Bob loved this movie
Carol and Dave hated this movie so what
from you infer well we know from the
feature vectors that Alice and Bob love
romantic movies because they told us
that one is of the five year whereas
Carol and Dave we know that they hate
romantic movies and that they love
action movies so because those are the
parameter vectors that you know user
three and four Carol and Dave gave us
and so based on the fact that movie one
is loved by Alice and Bob and hated by
Carol and Dave we might reasonably
conclude that you know this is probably
a romantic movie and is probably not
much of an action range this example is
a little bit mathematically simplified
but what we're really asking is what
feature vectors should x1 be so that
theta 1 transpose x1 is approximately
equal to 5
that Alice's rating and theta 2
transpose x1 is also approximately equal
to 5 and theta 3 transpose x1 is
approximately equal to 0 so this would
be a careless rating and theta 4
transpose x1 is approximately equal to 0
and from this it looks like you know x1
equals 1 destined set ramen at one point
zero zero point zero
that makes sense given what we know of
Alice Bob Carol and Dave's preferences
for movies in the way they rated this
movie and so more generally we can go
down this list and try to figure out
what might be reasonable features for
these other movies as long
let's formalize this problem of learning
the features X I let's think that our
users have given us their preferences so
let's say that our users have come in
you know told us these values for theta
1 to theta of Nu and we want to learn
the feature vector X I for movie number
I what we can do is therefore pose the
following optimization problem so we
want to sum over all the indices J for
which we have a rating for movie I
because we're trying to learn the
features for movie I then is this
feature vector X I so and then what we
want to do is minimize this squared
error so we want to choose features X I
so that you know the predictive value of
how user J Ray's movie I will be similar
will be not too far in the squared error
sense of the actual value Y IJ that we
actually observe in the rating of user J
on movie I so just summarize what this
term does is it tries to choose features
X I so that for all the users J that
have rated that movie the our algorithm
also predicts a value for how that user
would rate to that movie that is not too
far in the squared error sense from the
actual value that the user had rated
that movie so that's the squared error
term and as usual we can also add this
sort of regularization term to prevent
the features from becoming too big
so this is how we would learn the
features so one specific movie but what
we want to do is learn all the features
for all the movies and so what I'm going
to do is add this extra summation here
so I'm going to sum over all n M movies
and subscript n movies and minimize this
objective on top but somes over our
movies and if you do that you end up
with the following optimization problem
and if you minimize this you have
hopefully a reasonable set of features
for all of your movies so putting
everything together what we do we talked
about in the previous video and the
algorithm that we just talked about in
this video in the previous video what we
show was that you know if you have a set
of movie ratings so if you have the data
the RI J's and if you have the Y IJ
trance you've had the movie ratings
then given features for your different
movies we can learn these parameters
data so if you need the features you can
learn the parameters theta for your
different users and what we show earlier
in this video is that if your users are
willing to give you parameters then you
can estimate features for the different
movies so this is kind of a chicken in a
problem right which comes first you know
do we want to if we get the Thetas you
can learn the Exodus
you can if we have the XS with a test
and what you can do in and then this
actually works what you can do is in
fact randomly gets some value of the
Thetas now based on your initial
rambling guests for the Thetas you can
then go ahead and use the procedure that
we just talked about in order to learn
features for your different movies now
given some initial set of features for
movies you can then use you know this
first method that we talked about the
previous video to try to get an even
better estimate for your parameters
theta now they have a better setting of
the parameters theta for your users we
can use that to maybe get an even better
set of features and so on we can sort of
keep iterating going back and forth and
optimizing theta X theta X theta X and
this actually works and if you do this
this will actually cause your algorithm
to converge to a reasonable set of
features for your movies and the
reasonable sets of parameters for your
different users so this is a basic
collaborative filtering algorithm this
isn't actually define your algorithm
that we're going to use in the next
video we're going to be able to improve
on this algorithm and make it quite a
bit more computationally efficient but
hopefully this gives you a sense of how
you can formulate a problem where you
can simultaneously learn the parameters
and simultaneously learn B features from
the different movies and for this
problem for the recommender system
problem this is possible only because
the user base multiple movies and
hopefully each movie is rated by
multiple users and so you can do this
back and forth process to this
index so to summarize in this video
we've seen an initial collaborative
filtering algorithm the term
collaborative filtering refers to the
observation that when you run this out
room with a large set of users what all
of these users are effectively doing are
sort of collaboratively or collaborating
to get better movie ratings for everyone
because with every user rating some
subset of the movies every user is
helping the algorithm a little bit to
learn better features and then by
helping you know by rating a few movies
myself I would be hoping the system
learn better features and then these
features can be used by the system to
make better movie predictions for
everyone else and so there's a sense of
collaboration where every user is
helping the system learn better features
sort of for the common good and since
just collaborative filtering and in the
next video what we're going to do is
take the ideas that we've worked out and
try to develop an even better algorithm
slightly better technique for
collaborative filtering